# BSServerMonitor
Welcome to the Open-Source Server Monitor Project created by BurnSoft.net. This application was initially designed to monitor our internal servers, after designing it, we started to use it to monitor more then just servers. The flat client admin GUI will allow you to create your own types to categorize the device that you wish to monitor. Since this application just pings the device DNS name or IP Address it didn’t matter if it was a server or not so it’s really more of a network Device Monitor. Why is this application free and open source considering everything else I find on the web is something you have to pay for just to ping a device.  Well since we did publish the source code, it is free for you to change and compile as you like.  We used Visual Studio 2005 for this application to start and Upgraded it to Visual Studio 2010 using .Net 4.0.  Eventually we will upgrade it to the latest Visual Studio version.  Secondly, if you have any questions you can email us and we will answer you questions as best we can.  But there is no phone support or remote desktop service with our OpenSource application.  Also it is not one of the easiest installs that we have considering it depends on MySQL being installed on the server the is going to be considered the Master Server.  The collectors (if you choose to use them ) is a small client that will insert the results into the database.  You don’t have to use a collector for a small environment but if you are pinging over 100 servers, you might want to consider putting collectors out there.
